Nitesh Singh
Software Developer
Ra
+91.9594947475 NiteshSingh.ns26@gmail.com Kalyan, MH
Objective
Results-driven Software Engineer with 2+ years of experience in full-stack development,
testing and deployment of scalable software solutions. Proficient in C#, JavaScript, jQuery
and .NET frameworks. Known for strong problem-solving skills, effective team 
collaboration, and a proven ability to quickly adapt to new technologies and complex 
business environments.
Education SSC Completed
New Era English High School March 2015 
Maharashtra Board
HSC, Science Completed
RKT College of Arts Science and Commerce February 2017 
Maharashtra Board
Computer Science, Bachelor of Science Completed
Saket College of Arts, Science & commerce April 2020 
Mumbai University
Master’s in Information Technology Completed
Saket College of Arts, Science & commerce April 2022 
Mumbai University
Key Skills C#
.Net 
JavaScript 
HTML 
CSS
MySQL Server
Experience Biztran Solutions Pvt Ltd:(Feb 2025 – July 2025)
 Led the RIL ERP project, managing 2 developers (Desktop and Flutter) and 
successfully delivered 6+ core modules within 1 month, including Delivery 
Challan, GRN, and Master Data Management (Company, User, Account, Branch, 
Product, BOM) with QR code scanning integration.
 Developed and upgraded the EasyChat Marketing CRM Flutter app, 
improving process speed by 40% and enabling real-time WhatsApp 
messaging and campaign scheduling via WhatsApp Cloud API integration. 
Delivered a fully redesigned UI for enhanced user experience.
 Implemented Redis caching in VSPCRM Cloud ERP, reducing data retrieval 
time from several seconds to sub-second speeds, increasing database access 
efficiency by up to 10x and ensuring seamless softphone (Zoiper/X-Lite) 
integration.
 Optimized WinnerScreen ERP performance, reducing page load times from 
8–9 seconds to just 3 seconds (over 65% improvement) by optimizing API 
calls and background image processing.
 Gained hands-on expertise in VB.Net, Flutter, Redis, Node.js APIs, Linux, and 
Google Cloud Platform (GCP), including independent setup and hosting of 
Redis servers on Linux cloud environments to enable real-time 
communication with VB.Net desktop applications.
 Collaborated closely with project managers, cross-functional teams, and 
clients to ensuring 100% on-time delivery.
Care Centrix Pvt Ltd : (Jun 2024-Dec2024)
 Conducted thorough testing and debugging to ensure software quality
and reliability.
 Contributed to the design and implementation of core HRMS features such as 
employee profiles, asset approval and leave approval using C# and ASP.NET.
 Enhanced system workflows, improving user experience and reducing manual 
intervention by approximately 30%.
Eresource Infotech Pvt Ltd: (Mar 2023 – May 2024)
 Provided end-user support for MVPL and TLPL ERP projects, resolving 
issues with a first-response fix rate of over 85%.
 Proactively identified recurring problems and implemented preventive 
measures to reduce repeat issues by approximately 50%.
 Collaborated with cross-functional teams to analyze user needs and 
translate them into technical specifications.
 Wrote clean, efficient, and scalable code using C# .Net JavaScript and MS 
SQL Server.
 Conducted thorough testing and debugging to ensure software quality
and reliability.
 Provided technical support and assistance to end-users as required
Soft skills  Observation
 Decision making
 Communication
 Multi-tasking
